bot, coretasks, irc, plugin, plugins: new capability negotiation system (#2341)
sopel-irc/sopel: docs/source/plugin/advanced.rst

Note that you don't specifically need to use ``@plugin.thread(False)``, but
it is still recommended to prevent any race condition.

> Capability Negociation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Capability negotiation
```

Case change because it seems that we haven't used Title Case for this level of heading elsewhere in the page.

======================

> Capability negociation is a feature of IRCv3 that allows a server to advertise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Capability negotiation is a feature of IRCv3 that allows a server to advertise
```

a list of optional capabilities, and allows its clients to request such
capabilities. You can see that as feature flags, activated by the client.

> Capability negociation takes place after:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Capability negotiation takes place after:
```

* connecting to the IRC server
* client's identification (``USER`` and ``NICK``)

And before:

* the ``RPL_WELCOME`` event (001)
* ``ISUPPORT`` messages

> * client's authentification (except for SASL, which occurs in the capability
>   negociation phase)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* client's authentication (except for SASL, which occurs in the capability
  negotiation phase)
```

'authentification' _is_ a word (despite my browser's spell-checker flagging it), but its meaning is not what's meant here.

.. warning::

    This is a very advanced feature, and plugin authors should understand how

>     capability negociation works before using it. Even if Sopel tries to make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    capability negotiation works before using it. Even if Sopel tries to make
```

    it as simple as possible, plugin authors should be aware of the known
    limitations and possible caveats.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Declaring requests: the ``capability`` decorator
------------------------------------------------

In :mod:`sopel.plugin` there is an advanced :class:``capability`` decorator: it
is a class that acts like a decorator, and can be used with or without a
callback to decorate::

>     # plugin file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    """Sample plugin file"""

```

Module-level docstring is probably clearer than a comment that looks attached to the import. (Non-blocking suggestion.)

    from sopel import plugin

    # this will register a capability request
    CAP_ACCOUNT_TAG = plugin.capability('account-tag')

    # this will work as well
    @plugin.capability('message-prefix')
    def cap_message_prefix(cap_req, bot, acknowledged):
        # do something if message-prefix is ACK or NAK
        ...

.. autoclass:: sopel.plugin.capability
   :members:

.. autoclass:: sopel.plugin.CapabilityNegotiation
   :members:

Working with capabilities
-------------------------

A plugin that requires capabilities, or that can enhance its features with
capabilities, should rely on the bot's

> :attr:`capability manager <sopel.irc.AbstractBot.capabilities>`::

Reviewer: Not strictly related to this PR, but contextually relevant: Did we ever figure out how to make x-refs like this appear in not-monospace? When the link text is overridden to something that's not a code object, it looks odd.

Author: Oh. I think there is a trick, I'll see what I can do to make it less odd. The minimum I can do is to replace this by `bot.capabilities` to make it less odd.

    @plugin.command('mycommand')
    def mycommand_handler(bot, trigger):
        if bot.capabilities.is_enabled('cap1'):
            # be fancy with enhanced capabilities
        else:
            # stick to the basics

The manager's :meth:`~sopel.irc.capabilities.Capabilities.is_enabled` in
particular is the most interesting, as it allows a plugin to always know if a
capability is available or not.

> 
> Ending negociations

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Ending negotiations
```

-------------------

Sopel automatically sends a ``CAP END`` message when all requests are handled.

> However in some case, a plugin author may need to delay the end of the
> negociation to perform an action that must be done first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However in some cases, a plugin author may need to delay the end of CAP
negotiation to perform an action that must be done first.
```

> In that case, plugin author must return
> :attr:`~sopel.plugin.CapabilityNegotiation.CONTINUE` in their callback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that case, a plugin must return
:attr:`~sopel.plugin.CapabilityNegotiation.CONTINUE` in its callback.
```

> This is the case for the SASL authentification, as seen in the ``coretasks``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the case for the SASL authentication, as seen in the ``coretasks``
```

Same as before, real word with a different meaning than intended.

internal plugin that manages that::

    @plugin.capability('sasl')
    def cap_sasl_handler(cap_req, bot, acknowledged):
        # ... <skip for readability> ...
        bot.write(('AUTHENTICATE', mech))

        # If we want to do SASL, we have to wait before we can send CAP END.
        # So if we are, wait on 903 (SASL successful) to send it.
        return plugin.CapabilityNegotiation.CONTINUE

Later on, the plugin uses the
:meth:`~sopel.bot.Sopel.resume_capability_negotiation` method to tell the bot
that the request is complete, and the bot will send the ``CAP END``
automatically::

    @plugin.event(events.RPL_SASLSUCCESS)
    @plugin.thread(False)
    @plugin.unblockable
    @plugin.priority('medium')
    def sasl_success(bot: SopelWrapper, trigger: Trigger):
        """Resume capability negotiation on successful SASL auth."""
        LOGGER.info("Successful SASL Auth.")
        bot.resume_capability_negotiation(CAP_SASL.cap_req, 'coretasks')

.. important::

>     Note that these plugin callable should always use ``@plugin.thread(False)``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Plugin callables that modify the bot's capability negotiation state should always use ``@plugin.thread(False)``
```

No rewrap because I'm lazy and the PR already has a bunch of stuff that needs squashing down anyway.

Note that you don't specifically need to use ``@plugin.thread(False)``, but
it is still recommended to prevent any race condition.

Managing Capability negotiation
===============================

`Capability negotiation`__ is a feature of IRCv3 that allows a server to
advertise a list of optional capabilities, and allows its clients to request
such capabilities. You can see that as feature flags, activated by the client.

Capability negotiation takes place after:

* connecting to the IRC server
* client's identification (``USER`` and ``NICK``)

And before:

* the ``RPL_WELCOME`` event (001)
* ``ISUPPORT`` messages
* client's authentication (except for SASL, which occurs in the capability
  negotiation phase)

.. warning::

    This is a very advanced feature, and plugin authors should understand how
    capability negotiation works before using it. Even if Sopel tries to make
    it as simple as possible, plugin authors should be aware of the known
    limitations and possible caveats.

> .. __: https://ircv3.net/specs/extensions/capability-negotiation.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. __: https://ircv3.net/specs/extensions/capability-negotiation
```

Ditto what I said on the other occurrence.
